[Music]
[Applause]
hi it's five beauties of food and
welcome to boss the basics here we're
gonna be doing skinny baked fries
they're a lot easier and a lot healthier
than normal fried chips so this recipe
couldn't be any easier we need some
potatoes we need some sunflowers and
vegetable oil I've got some garlic
granules also known as garlic powder
some paprika some semolina or cornmeal
and a bit of salt the first thing we
need to do is get a tray of oil to heat
up we've got the oven heat up to 200
degrees centigrade that's 180 fan and we
leave about two teaspoons of oil you
know tray now a nonstick tray is good
for this because it means the chips
won't stick and a shallow tray is also
really good it means a heat can
circulate around the chips quick
masterclass and cutting chips I'm going
to keep the skin on these because we
don't want to waste any food especially
not these times you can peel the
potatoes if you want but when you're
chopping anything that's rounded first
thing you want to do is square it off so
by squaring it off I mean take the sides
off so we're going to take one side off
and another side of and another side of
and another side of and then what we're
left with is square that's all we can
work with that
but I'm not gonna waste any of these
these I'm going to cut into chips so for
chips we just want to cut them like this
and the same here so this I'm going to
do it two two and then turn it on its
side and then we're going to do it in
two four
- great what you see they've got
beautiful skin on chips now we're going
to season that flies with some garlic
powder some paprika I'm going to toss
them for a bit of salt we're going to
cook them in a bit of semolina and a bit
more oil and then they're good to go in
the hot tray
give them a good mixer hours they're all
coated in the seasoning let's wait it up
- get your hands in oil is nice and hot
and we're just going to rise over the
oil also start with making rice potatoes
I'm gonna give them a drizzle more oil
and then these go in the oven for 20
minutes we're going to turn them after
20 minutes and give them 20 minutes more
so our fries have had 20 minutes as you
can see they start to the peaceful and
crispy and we just kind of turn those
over slice evenly and they're going to
go back in the oven for another 20
minutes and we've done
look at those all crispy crunchy golden
and delicious so they've had 40 minutes
in total so that's how you make big
secret proof baked skinny fries I
product this mastery this has been
Boston basics
don't forget stay safe
[Music]
[Applause]